---
title: Day 4 - SCSS
---

- ## Tasks
  * To learn SCSS.

Today, my day started in style 😅 I mean with SCSS. Most of the programmers be like "we are already struggling with CSS and now you're talking about SCSS!!". Don't worry SCSS is
 just making our CSS a lot more easier. You can now relate CSS with other mainstream programming language but you still can't hack NASA with it 🤣. Jokes apart, what really is SCSS or
many of you would be confusing it with one more term Sass. So let us talk about this.

## What is SCSS? How is it related to Sass?
Sass is a stylesheet language that’s compiled to CSS. It allows you to use variables, nested rules, mixins, functions, and more, all with a fully CSS-compatible syntax. Sass helps keep 
large stylesheets well-organized and makes it easy to share design within and across projects.      
So, the major term here is Sass and SCSS is its latest version of Sass and it stands for Sass with CSS. There is no major difference between the two except syntax. There is a little 
difference in syntax, Sass uses indentation and no curly braces where as SCSS use curly braces or we can say same syntax as that of CSS. File extension of sass is .sass while that
of SCSS is .scss .       
### Example:- 
#### Sass
```sass
body
  font: 100% $font-stack
  color: $primary-color
```
#### SCSS
```scss
body {
  font: 100% $font-stack;
  color: $primary-color;
}
```
So, most of the programmers like to use 
SCSS as it is faster to put curly braces as compared to indentation. That's why we will be following sytax of SCSS here and in no way other parts will differ in two. You can easily 
write SCSS from Sass and vice versa. I will be refering to Sass in future while using syntax of SCSS as Sass is a more appropriate term to be used. So, before starting learning fundamentals of Sass 
lets see how we can install it in our project.    

## Installation
We will install sass using node.js. However, you can refer to this [guide](https://sass-lang.com/install) if you want to install on any other platform.
Use npm to install sass:-    
```bash
npm install -g sass
```

## Preprocessing
CSS is good but it still lacks basic programming features like nesting, mixin, inherit etc. that makes life a lot easy. Imagine you have written hundreds of lines of code and used 
a particular color at many places. Now, your client want you to try some different color scheme then it would be very time consuming to change color at each place but with sass 
you can do this work in a single step by assigning color code to a variable ad using that variable at every place where that color is being used. There a lot more complex use cases 
of sass where it makes your code more robust, less lengthy and easier to read and change as compared to traditional CSS.      
So, lets start learning sass. Once you start tinkering with Sass, it will take your preprocessed Sass file and save it as a normal CSS file that you can use in your website.    
The most direct way to make this happen is in your terminal. Once Sass is installed, you can compile your Sass to CSS using the `sass` command. You'll need to tell Sass which file to build from, and where to output CSS to. For example, running       
```bash
sass input.scss output.css
```
from your terminal would take a single Sass file, `input.scss`, and compile that file to output.css.      

You can also watch individual files or directories with the `--watch flag`. The watch flag tells Sass to watch your source files for changes, and re-compile CSS each time you save your Sass. If you wanted to watch (instead of manually build) your `input.scss` file, you'd just add the watch flag to your command, like so:
```bash
sass --watch input.scss output.css
```
You can watch and output to directories by using folder paths as your input and output, and separating them with a colon. In this example:
```bash
sass --watch app/sass:public/stylesheets
``` 
Sass would watch all files in the app/sass folder for changes, and compile CSS to the public/stylesheets folder.      

## Variables
I would assume that you know fundamentals of any programming langauage like C, C++, Python, Java etc. because no beginner will learn sass in the very first place and also I would'nt 
recommend you to follow this tutorial if you're not pretty confident in css.     
So, lets talk about variables. Variables in programming are just like those in maths. They are called variable because their values can vary and is mutable. We can store some 
data in a variable and then can use it in the places where we want that data. Next time when we want to change data we can simply change the value of that variable and data at 
all the places will be changed.     
You can store things like colors, font stacks, or any CSS value you think you'll want to reuse. Sass uses the $ symbol to make something a variable. Here's an example:      
```scss
$font-stack:    Helvetica, sans-serif;
$primary-color: #333;

body {
  font: 100% $font-stack;
  color: $primary-color;
}
```
Here, we have declared two variables, `$font-stack` with font information and `$primary-color` with a color code. We have used these variables in the body and after compiling this 
scss, css would look something like this:    
```css
body {
  font: 100% Helvetica, sans-serif;
  color: #333;
}
```
When the Sass is processed, it takes the variables we define for the `$font-stack` and `$primary-color` and outputs normal CSS with our variable values placed in the CSS. This can be extremely powerful when working with brand colors and keeping them consistent throughout the site.     
## Nesting
When writing HTML you've probably noticed that it has a clear nested and visual hierarchy. CSS, on the other hand, doesn't.

Sass will let you nest your CSS selectors in a way that follows the same visual hierarchy of your HTML. Be aware that overly nested rules will result in over-qualified CSS that could prove hard to maintain and is generally considered bad practice.

With that in mind, here's an example of some typical styles for a site's navigation:

```scss
nav {
  ul {
    margin: 0;
    padding: 0;
    list-style: none;
  }

  li { display: inline-block; }

  a {
    display: block;
    padding: 6px 12px;
    text-decoration: none;
  }
}
```
```css
nav ul {
  margin: 0;
  padding: 0;
  list-style: none;
}
nav li {
  display: inline-block;
}
nav a {
  display: block;
  padding: 6px 12px;
  text-decoration: none;
}
```
You'll notice that the ul, li, and a selectors are nested inside the nav selector. This is a great way to organize your CSS and make it more readable.

## Partials
You can create partial Sass files that contain little snippets of CSS that you can include in other Sass files. 
This is a great way to modularize your CSS and help keep things easier to maintain. A partial is a Sass file named with a leading underscore. 
You might name it something like `_partial.scss`. The underscore lets Sass know that the file is only a partial file and that it should not be generated into a CSS file. 
Sass partials are used with the `@use` rule.     
Note *Only Dart Sass currently supports @use. Users of other implementations must use the @import rule instead.*
## Modules
You don't have to write all your Sass in a single file. You can split it up however you want with the `@use` rule. This rule loads another Sass file as a module, 
which means you can refer to its variables, mixins, and functions in your Sass file with a namespace based on the filename. 
Using a file will also include the CSS it generates in your compiled output!
```scss
// _base.scss
$font-stack:    Helvetica, sans-serif;
$primary-color: #333;

body {
  font: 100% $font-stack;
  color: $primary-color;
}
```

```scss
@use 'base';

.inverse {
  background-color: base.$primary-color;
  color: white;
}
```
The compiles `CSS` will look something like this: 
```css
body {
  font: 100% Helvetica, sans-serif;
  color: #333;
}

.inverse {
  background-color: #333;
  color: white;
}
```

Notice we're using `@use 'base';` in the `styles.scss` file. When you use a file you don't need to include the file extension. Sass is smart and will figure it out for you.
## Mixins
Some things in `CSS` are a bit tedious to write, especially with `CSS3` and the many vendor prefixes that exist. A mixin lets you make groups of CSS declarations that you want to 
reuse throughout your site. You can even pass in values to make your mixin more flexible. A good use of a mixin is for vendor prefixes. Here's an example for theme.
```scss
@mixin theme($theme: DarkGray) {
  background: $theme;
  box-shadow: 0 0 1px rgba($theme, .25);
  color: #fff;
}

.info {
  @include theme;
}
.alert {
  @include theme($theme: DarkRed);
}
.success {
  @include theme($theme: DarkGreen);
}
```
The compiled css:
```css
.info {
  background: DarkGray;
  box-shadow: 0 0 1px rgba(169, 169, 169, 0.25);
  color: #fff;
}

.alert {
  background: DarkRed;
  box-shadow: 0 0 1px rgba(139, 0, 0, 0.25);
  color: #fff;
}

.success {
  background: DarkGreen;
  box-shadow: 0 0 1px rgba(0, 100, 0, 0.25);
  color: #fff;
}
```
To create a mixin you use the `@mixin` directive and give it a name. We've named our mixin theme. We're also using the variable `$theme` inside the parentheses so we 
can pass in a theme of whatever we want. After you create your mixin, you can then use it as a `CSS` declaration starting with `@include` followed by the name of the mixin.

## Extend/Inheritance
This is one of the most useful features of Sass. Using `@extend` lets you share a set of CSS properties from one selector to another. 
It helps keep your Sass very DRY. In our example we're going to create a simple series of messaging for errors, warnings and successes using another feature which goes hand 
in hand with extend, placeholder classes. A placeholder class is a special type of class that only prints when it is extended, and can help keep your compiled CSS neat and clean.
```scss
/* This CSS will print because %message-shared is extended. */
%message-shared {
  border: 1px solid #ccc;
  padding: 10px;
  color: #333;
}

// This CSS won't print because %equal-heights is never extended.
%equal-heights {
  display: flex;
  flex-wrap: wrap;
}

.message {
  @extend %message-shared;
}

.success {
  @extend %message-shared;
  border-color: green;
}

.error {
  @extend %message-shared;
  border-color: red;
}

.warning {
  @extend %message-shared;
  border-color: yellow;
}
```
```css
/* This CSS will print because %message-shared is extended. */
.message, .success, .error, .warning {
  border: 1px solid #ccc;
  padding: 10px;
  color: #333;
}

.success {
  border-color: green;
}

.error {
  border-color: red;
}

.warning {
  border-color: yellow;
}
```
What the above code does is tells `.message`, `.success`, `.error`, and `.warning` to behave just like `%message-shared`. That means anywhere that `%message-shared` shows up, 
`.message`, `.success`, `.error`, & `.warning` will too. The magic happens in the generated CSS, where each of these classes will get the same CSS properties as `%message-shared`. This helps you avoid having to write multiple class names on HTML elements.

You can extend most simple CSS selectors in addition to placeholder classes in Sass, but using placeholders is the easiest way to make sure you aren't extending 
a class that's nested elsewhere in your styles, which can result in unintended selectors in your CSS.   



Note that the CSS in `%equal-heights` isn't generated, because `%equal-heights` is never extended.


## Operators
Doing math in your CSS is very helpful. Sass has a handful of standard math operators like `+, -, *, /, and %`. In our example we're going to do some simple math to calculate 
widths for an aside & article.
```scss
.container {
  width: 100%;
}

article[role="main"] {
  float: left;
  width: 600px / 960px * 100%;
}

aside[role="complementary"] {
  float: right;
  width: 300px / 960px * 100%;
}
```
And the compiled css will be:
```css
.container {
  width: 100%;
}

article[role="main"] {
  float: left;
  width: 62.5%;
}

aside[role="complementary"] {
  float: right;
  width: 31.25%;
}
```
We've created a very simple fluid grid, based on 960px. Operations in Sass let us do something like take pixel values and convert them to percentages without much hassle.

#### Thank You
### Happy Styling ✨



