---
title: Day 18 - Tasks App Soft Design
---
Hello Guys...      
How you doing? Hope you are doing great. Today finally I completed Tasks Apps soft design which is live @ [link](https://jaswantsinghh.github.io/tasks-app-soft-design/). It is a vert amazing
feeling when a task given to you is finally completed. I gave my entire focus on the design today and finally completed it. There were many challenges I faced during design. Sometimes 
positioning were not right, sometimes flex was behaving buggy and many more issue but I googled issues and got it right. So, I have submitted my task for getting reviewed. Lets see
 what will be the feedback. The design is meant for mobile mainly and I did not changed anything specific for desktop size screen but still it is responsive enought to fit on desktop 
 screen perfectly without any issue.     
After that I also implemented dark mode and used gear icon placed at bottom navbar for this purpose. I looks great when we switch the dark or light mode. Implementing this functionality '
was not so tough. You have to just keep track of the state and change className accordingly, in CSS you can change color for the corresponding className.      
I got a thought of implementing its Progressive Web App (PWA) version but since its a non functional static design, so I do not think implementing its PWA makes any sense though it 
would be great for practicing skills.     
Its all about today's brief overview about completing this task, will write about the feedbacks I will recieve from my mentor in next blog most probably.     
#### Thank You
### Happy Finishing 🏋️‍♀️🏋️‍
